# Microsoft Management Console
The idea for MMC is to have a central window where you can configure several different elements of the operating system instead of opening up every individual program up.

To open this program up use `mmc.exe`. Usually this program is blank by default. you must configure the program manually. with items (snap-in) such as:
- Event Viewer
- Disk Management
- Task Scheduler
- Performance
- Certificates
- and more...
to use this tool you need administration access on your account.
Once you open the program to add a snap-in you go to
`file> add/remove Snappin` or `Ctrl+M`
## Event Viewer
This is one of the most important snap-in to add to MMC.
Here you can check logs for 
- security
- setup
- applications
- warnings
- audits 
- and more...
To run this program on it's own use `eventvwr.msc`
## Disk Management
Here you can change elements of drives
`diskmgmt.msc`
## Task Scheduler
Schedule tasks, applications, and scripts here with date and time.
This app is cool since you can also add folders as a method to organize tasks. This program also has predefined schedules as well.
`taskschd.msc`
## Device Manager
add hardware/software drivers. Drivers are OS Specific. Win7/8 Might not work on 10/11
`devmgmt.msc`
## Certificate Manager
Here You can check trusted certs
`certmgr.msc`
## Local Users and Groups
### Users
- Administrators
	- has superuser rights
- Guest
	- Has very limited access
- Regular
	- These have standard accounts although it only modifies there account.
### Guests
Administrators, Users, Backup Operators, Power Users, etc.

`lusrmgr.msc`
## Performance Monitor
Here you can find metrics and reports such as:
- Disk
- Memory
- CPU
- and more
These Analytics can be stored to check for long term trends and also alerts and automated actions.
`perfmon.msc`
## Group Policy Editor
Centrally Manage users and systems. these policies can be part of `Active Directory` or a local system.
For Local:
`gpedit.msc`
For Group (Pro and Enterprise only):
Much more powerful
`gpmc.msc`
## System Info
this gives an overview of the systems hardware resources, components, and software environments.
you can even look for pending print jobs here
`msinfo32.exe`
## Resource Monitor
Detailed Real-time view of performance more so than task manager.
`resmon.exe`
## System Configuration
You can manage boot processes, startup, services and more. Here are some examples:
- Safeboot
- No GUI
- Boot log
- Base Video
- OS Boot info
These can be set for next boot or permanently
## Disk Cleanup
Find Unused files to delete space quickly
`cleanmgr.exe`
## Defrag
Useful for Hard Disks to defragment to make sure that all the data is stored contiguous. this helps I/O speeds.
you can click on the drive and go to `tools> Optimize` or via console using `defrag <volume_letter>`. This can be automated in the Optimize Drives window.
## Regedit
The windows Registry editor is a hierarchical structure with a large database of several configurations of the system. You can configure your 
- Kernel
- Drivers
- Services
- Security Account Manager
- User Interface
- Applications
It's a good Idea to back up your registry!