# Internet Options/Settings
Here you can change browser settings. usually this is for internet explorer, although it might work for other browsers.
- Security based on site location
- privacy such as cookies, popups
- Certificates and auto complete
- VPN and Proxy Settings
- In the advance tab You can reset settings if things go wrong
## Device and printers
Here you will find devices on the network such as:
- Computers
- Printers
- multimedia devices
- storage
This menu is easier than using Device Manager due to the easier UI
## Programs and Features
Here you can uninstall programs, and on the left menu you will see a Windows features tab to enable or disable some of them
## System
here you can find computer information such as ram, windows edition and more. you can even find remote desktop if it's a windows pro machine.
## Mail
this only appears if you have a mail client installed such as outlook
Here you can find RSS Feed info, local mail configurations, data files and account info
## User Accounts
Here you can manage local users. Domain accounts are stored elsewhere. here you can see they account name/type. change it's password and picture too
## Indexing Options
Speed up the search process in the start menu
you can control what to include/excluded from the search
## File Explorer Options
here you can have different views, and change search index just for file explorer
## Admin Tools
Not commonly used utilities usually for admins and technicians
## Ease of access center
Here you can change settings to make it easier for users to use displays, keyboards and other stuff.