# Physical Security
## Access Control Vestibule
this is a door system where all doors are locked by default. Only one door can become unlocked at a time, All other doors cannot be unlocked until the initial unlocked door becomes locked again.
these usually use Keycards and authentication with a person at the end.
# Badge reader
these are usually Magnetic cards, RFID or NFC.
## Cameras
CCTV can sometimes read License plates and people's faces.
## Alarm Systems
Usually these are Circuit-based and tell you if someone opened, closed a door or motion has been detected.
## Door Locks
Conventional lock and key
there are also dead bolts or uses some form of electronic form of identification or code.
# Staff Authentication
- Smart Cards
	- Usually needs a password or a ID number
- RFID
- NFC
- Keys and Key cabinets to see who checked out the keys. you might need to give some form of collateral.
- Biometrics
	- Use Mathematical imprints of your finger print/face print.
	- they aren't foolproof.
	- you might need a password too.
## Magnetometers
metal detectors
won't ID ceramic or plastic.
# Logical Security
## Least Privilege
you want to give the least amount of rights for a user to do their tasks on their accounts. their applications should also run with minimal privileges as well.
## Access Control Lists (ACLs)
This helps to allow or deny traffic. this is also used in NAT, QoS, etc.
- ACLs evaluate on certain criteria such as
	- Source IP
	- Destination IP
	- Port Numbers TCP/UDP
	- ICMP
		- It is used by [network devices](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_device "Network device"), including [routers](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Router_(computing) "Router (computing)"), to send error messages and operational information indicating success or failure when communicating with another [IP address](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IP_address "IP address"). For example, an error is indicated when a requested service is not available or that a [host](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Host_(network) "Host (network)") or router could not be reached.
On the OS level, you can deny certain sections of the Filesystem to be accessible such as specific files and directories.
## MultiFactor
Something you...
- know
- do
- have
- know
- are
- (where yuo are)
Can be expensive.
## SMS & Phone Calls
you can get codes this way, although there are issues such as phone number reassignment, SMS interception and spoofing
## Email filtering
Clear unsolicited emails
