# Social Engineering
- May use multiple methods of communication and people
- constantly changing
- Some pose as aggresive customers
- some pose as funeral notifications for associates or friends
the goal is to earn trust of people in the organization to gain access to restricted areas.
## Phishing
Fake website, texts, (e)mail, and more
Don't be fooled check the URLS, spelling, fonts and graphics
- spoofing of Caller ID is common as well
- Fake Security checks too
## Shoulder Surfing
someone that looks at your screen
common in airports, hallway facing monitors, Coffee shops
sometimes people use binoculars or telescopes
### prevent this
- control your enviroment
- use filters
- keep monitor away from sight
## Spear Phishing
this is targeted phishing with insider organization
- if it's the CEO it's called whaling
## Tailgating
someone who goes through a door without authorized access by holding the door. piggybacking is with someone with authorization.
### how to prevent
- One Scan per person
- Access control vestibule
- don't forget to ask for a badge.
## Impersonation
They pretend to be someone who they aren't
## Dumpter Diving
remember to shred important stuff or burn it!
## Wireless evil twin
WAP that has the same configuration as a legit one
they might have similar SSID and security settings/web portal. Sometimes it can even overwhelm the legit one.
remember to use https and proxys as well.
# Denial of Service
Force a service to fail
- turning off service
- hack service and damage it
- DNS spoofing
## accidental DOS
- 2 loop without STP in the patch closet
- Limited bandwidth
- Waterline broke or something
## DDOS
they use botnets to controll thousands to millions of computers. Zeus infected over 3.6 million PCs.
### How to filter it
Filter traffic patterns
many ISPs look for DDOS attacks
use cloudflare
# Zero Day Attacks
Someone always is trying to find vulnerabilities before the companies find it.
some look for it to exploit, some look for exploits to gain profit.
Here is a database: (Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures)[https://cve.mitre.org)
## Log4j
this is a logging based utility in apache services and installed on millions of servers. this vulnerability was introduced in September 14th, 2013 and was detected on December 9th, 2021
the CVS for this was a 10/10
after it was discovered, it was patched in 5 days and there were additional fixes for new patches to be found.
# On Path Attacks
also known as a Man in the middle attack
they watch the packets and even redirect them. and do ARP poisoning. where they spoof ip addresses.
### how it's done. 
usually the computer asks for who is the router. so it looks for 192.168.1.1. when the router gets the ping, the router will return it's MAC address.
on an attack the computer, this computer will spoof the router by copying and sending the routers IP and but with it's own MAC address and claiming they are infact the router.
ARP will then switch the routers actual mac address and to the attacks computer in confusion.
## Browser attack
if someone attacks your browser. the browser can see everything decrypted in the browser and will see your inputs as well.

