# MS Defender
Always keep things in real time. Sometimes you have to disable this for troubleshooting purposes. remember to turn it back on later.
Also always try to keep it up to date. this is normally done automatically, although sometimes you might check it manually for troubleshooting.
# MS Firewall
you might also need to turn this off for debugging too.
Also MS firewall has network settings for public and private networks as well.
## Blocking connections
you can block incoming connections or certain programs from running either in public or private networks
## Windows Security Settings
## User Administration
Local accounts and groups are configured in `computer management` 
Login types:
- PIN
- Biometirc
- SSO
- Username/password
- Security Key
- Picture Password
## NTFS
NTFS has native support for group permissions for local and user group connections. For network connections you need to configure under share policies.
Try to keep the drive as restrictive as possible. this will help to mitigate unwanted access, especially from outside the organization.
NTFS also **Inherits** from parent objects, *unless you move to a different folder on the same volume*. 
## Explicit Permissions
these are default permissions on the share. these overwrites the inherited permission.
## UAC User Account Control
this is a slider in user account control settings to give rules for users.
## EFS
encrypting file system. this is built into NTFS. this works on all except windows home.
EFS can encrypt files and folders, and is tied to your account and password. if an admin resets your password, it will cause EFS files to be inaccessible.