# Windows
## Blue Screen
When having a blue screen, the issue can be caused by bad hardware, bad drivers, bad applications.
To recover from this you can use:
- the last good backup, and/or driver(s)
- reinstall or remove trouble hardware
- run diagnostics
## Slow Performance
- check task manager
- check disk space
- check power-saving
- check anti-virus/malware
## Windows Boot Configuration Database (BCD)
- aka `boot.ini`
- On Recovery Console: `bootrec /rebuildbcd`
## Startup Repair
- Missing NTLR
	- bootloader is missing
	- Run startup repair or replace it manually
- Missing OS
	- Run startup repair or manually configure BCD
- Boots to safe mode
	- Run startup repair
## Other Issues
- Device not starting
	- check Device Manager and Event Viewer
	- Often a bad driver
	- try reinstalling it
- Service failed to start
	- check account permissions, 
	- sys files for windows services
	- app services; reinstall it
## Application Crashing
- check logs
- check reliability monitor
- reinstall app
## USB Endpoints
USB has buffers called endpoints
- different controllers support different endpoints
	- 96 endpoints, 254...
- you can try different usb interfaces for your devices
## System Instability
- run a full diagnostic
- hardware diagnostic
- check OS
	- run SFC (sys file checker)
	- run anti-malware
## Slow Profile Load
- check latency on domain controller
	- can cause slow login
	- slow policy application
- client workstation picks a remote domain controller instead of a local one
## System File Checker
you can check system integrity via `sfc` on the terminal. 
- this checks if the system files are the original ones on installation or not. this is useful for malware checks for OS integrity checks.
## Win updates
You can rollback updates if needed in the update settings.
## Rebuilding Profiles
profiles can become corrupted. common errors might be:
- `User Profile Service failed to logon`
- `User Profile cannot be loaded`
- `User documents may be missing`
The best thing to do in this situation is to delete the profile so that the domain can rebuild it by force. 

# General Troubleshooting
## Reboot!
sometimes restarting computers/apps/services.
## Verify Reqs
usually manufactures give generic minimum requirements although you might need more like libraries, and drivers. 
Even if the minimum RAM requirement for an app is the same amount as what is found in the system, that app minimum requirement is actually asking for the amount of free ram, not the total system ram.
Steps: 
1. login to the computer with admin rights
2. Rename the `\Users\(Name)`
3. Backup the registry (right click and export): 
	`HKLM\SOFTWARE\Microsoft\Windows NT\CurrentVersion\ProfileList`
4. Delete the registry
5. Re-login to the broken account to recreate it.
6. login as admin to copy important files
	Note: some files may be corrupted
7. logout as admin and login as user and test it
