this pertains to software upgrades, application patches, and other configurations. 
when making changes, this is where it's most common to have issues and risks.
always have a clear policies for changes, if not things can become disastrous.
sometimes it's difficult to implement new procedures, especially when there is no change management procedures in place at all.
## Rollback plan
make sure to have a rollback plan just in case that the upgrades fail.
you should have a plan to revert your changes and sometimes difficult to revert. 
## Use Sandboxes
to try and test changes and to try reverting changes as well this is where you should test out things before trying it live. 
# Who is responsible for the changes?
Everyone in the organization! It's a team effort to make these changes work. 
- IT team
	- implements changes
- Business Customers
	- the users of the software
- Organization Sponsor
	- the budgeter, they are responsible for the expenses and the profits over the upgrade process. 
# Change Management Process
this is a formal procedure to help mitigate downtime and mistakes. 
1. Change request forms
	1. create detailed reports and statistics
	2. Manage the people that are involved
2. determine purpose of change
	1. there needs to be a good reason to change such as vulnerabilities, bug fixes, enhancements, and features
3. ID the scope of the change
	1. determine the complexity of the change, time required, and how much devices are needing servicing. 
4. Schedule the date for changes
5. Determine affected systems and impact
6. Analyze risks associated with the change
	1. consider the risks associated with making the change and not making the change. 
	2. risk level high, med, low?
	3. does the "fix" actually fix anything? or does it break stuff. 
7. Get approval from the change control board
	1. lots of discussions happen at this stage
	2. change board makes schedule, some changes have priority over others
	3. once accepted, the actual work comes next. 
8. Get end-user acceptance after change is complete
	1. this is the confirmation step towards the task being completed and if the changes are actually worth it. 
