# Communication
- The better you communicate the more marketable you are. 
- Communicate in a manner that everyone can understand. **don't use:**
	- abbreviations
	- acronyms
	- slang.
- Maintain a **positive** attitude, this impacts overall customer experience.

## Clarification
- Remember to always ask relevant questions and avoid judging or arguments. 
- Repeat your understanding of the problem back to the customer. 
- Keep an open mind, even if the issue seems obvious at first, you might be surprised by it. 
## Don't interrupt
Sometimes we might know an answer and want to say it to streamline the conversation. although this is not the best due to possibly missing key information that you might not receive due to interrupting. 
## Expectations
- Offer different solutions if applicable
	- Repair
	- Replace
- Document everything
	- if you are left with any questions, ask the client immediately
- Keep everyone informed
	- give updates to the clients at least weekly
- Follow up
	- ask if their satisfied with the work
# Professionalism
take lead from management on how to dress

## Judgement
- Avoid offending others, especially on culture.
- You are a teacher
	- help educate others on tech!
	- Remember others can teach you too!
	- You are also going to make mistakes too!

## Be Courteous
- Don't allow interruptions
	- Don't talk to anyone that is not the customer, or involved with solving an issue
	- if interruptions occur or any delays happen **Apologize**
- Create an environment for conversation
	- in person
		- be open, be inviting
		- use candy bowls
	- On the phone
		- Quiet background
		- Clear Audio
		- Don't use speakerphone
## Difficult Situations
- Don't argue or be in defensive
	- Don't dismiss
	- Don't be contradicting
Instead, try to diffuse a difficult situation
- Listen and ask questions
- Communicate
	- sometimes there is no updates
		- Tell them that you are still monitoring the situation
**Never post issues onto social media**

## Maintain Confidentiality
you are working through a lot of sensitive information. Respect their information like you would like others to respect yours. 