When working on a computer **ALWAYS DISCONNECT FROM ALL POWER SOURCES**
- Capacitors can shock you
- Do not connect yourself to any part of the electrical system this includes the ground
# Power supplies
Computers use DC Voltage and convert from AC voltage
Usually converts from 120V AC or 240V AC to 3.3V, 5V, & 12V DC
# Amp, Volt, & Watt
## Ampere 
is the rate of electron flow past a point in a second (Bandwidth/ diameter of a hose)
## Voltage
is the electrical "pressure" pushing electrons (how open is the faucet).
- Voltage is a difference in potential, usually a common point of reference is the ground
## Watt
is the measurement of real power use:
- Volts * Amps = Watts
- 120V * 0.5A = 60W
# Alternating Current (AC) ⏦
- Direction of current constantly reverses
- Distributes electricity over long distances
- Frequency Cycle is important
	- US/CAN: 110V-120V of AC (VAC), 60Hz
	- Euro: 220V-240V VAC, 50Hz
	- Some Power Supplies can be switched for EU or US/CA
		- Automatically
		- or Via a physical switch
# Direct Current (DC) ⎓
- Current Moves in **one direction with constant voltage**
# PSU Output
Power supplies will use different voltages for different components. The +/- refer to the distance from the voltage. remember Voltage is based on **Difference** Potential. so this means the PSU can step up 10V or step down 10V
## Common Voltage
### +12V
- PCIe
- HDD
- Fans
### +5V
older motherboards use 5V, although many components now use 3.3V
### 3.3V
- M.2
- RAM
- Motherboard logic circuits
### +5 VSB
- standby voltage
- used for sleep mode to see if you press the power button to wake
### -12V
- Integrated LAN
- Older serial ports
- some PCI cards
### -5V
- ISA adapter cards
- mostly unused and modern computers don't have these slots
# 24-Pin motherboard power
This gives the main motherboard power
- +3.3V, +/-5V, and +/-12V
- 20 pin connector was the original standard until PCIe came in with 24V
# Redundant power supplies
Having two or more power supplies, usually this is found in servers.
Each power supply can handle 100% of the load, with split power supplies each balance out the load. so if one PSU becomes faulty, the system can still operate with the other(s). Usually they are hot swappable.
# PSU Sizing
Bigger isn't always better, it will be expensive and doesn't make it more efficient.
to calculate the right PSU, is to see how much you will need by the parts you will be using. take the wattage that you need and double it.