usually abriviated as MFD
- Printers
- Scanners
- FAX
- Network connections
- phone line connection
- print from web
# Drivers
You will need to install drivers and the one meant for your OS and version of it.
# PCL postscript
Created by HP, common across system
# PostScript
made by Adobe usually for high end printers
# Printer communication
- Usually USB type B to type A or a RJ45 #Ethernet Connector
- Wireless
	- #Bluetooth
	- #Wifi INFRASTRUCTURE MODE
		- Many devices can connect to it
	- #Wifi Ad-Hoc mode
		- No access point
		- Direct link with wireless devices
# Printer Share
you can share a printer by allowing documents to be sent to your computer and giving the print commands to the printer connected directly to it.
- Computer needs to be on at all times
Printer Servers are better as the printer has it's own server that will do the share tasks by itself.
# Printer Settings
## Duplex
print on both sides.
## Orientation
## Tray settings
you can say which tray to print from.
Sometimes you should look into the trays physically to confirm the sizes
## Print Quality
useful to make drafts, b&W or color saving mode
# Printer Security
- User authentication is important to set the right permissions.you can determine the users or group of users.
- Some printers even use badges for security.
- Printers also have Audit logs to see who prints and any statistics
- Secured prints- printer must support it.
	- you need to place your pin in to output
# Flatbed scanner
useful to scan papers to make physically
- Scan to Email
- to folder (SMB) or Microsoft share
- Scan to cloud
