you can host the os in your computers desktop or stand alone virtual machines within a server.
# Cross-platform virtualization
Virtual machines are great for running old software, or software that is not compatible with your standard OS.
# Hypervisor
these are virtual machine managers.
- virtual box
- vmware
these require CPUs that support virtualization
- AMD-V
- Intel Virtualization Technology (VT)
hypervisors can manage CPU, networking and more.
- Standalone
- NAT
- Bridging
# Sandboxing
an isolated testing environment
- no connection to the real world/ production system
- a technological safe space
- snapshots
- gives a safe space for testing without breaking things
# Building applications
VMs and sandboxes help developers by creating secure environments, writing code and testing.
This helps ensure that testing does not have external issues from other programs and such.
# Hypervisor Security

Hypervisors are where people try to attack virtual machines. they do this by VM escaping.
- Malware recognizes it's on a VM
- Malware compromises the hypervisor
- Malware jumps from guest OS to other guest machines or host.
Can be a real issue for customers who are renting server space.
# Guest operating system security
every guest is self-contained and should use traditional security controls such as firewalls and anti-malware.
Watch out for rouge VMs. don't download other peoples VMs.
# Networking
Most client-side virtual machine managers have their own virtual (internal) networks
## Shared network address
- virtual machines share the same IP address as the host. 
- the Host machine makes an internal IP address internally and uses NAT to convert to the physical host IP.
## Bridged network address
the VM is a device on the physical network
## Private address
the VM does not communicate outside of the virtual network