# POST
test major system components before booting to the OS
- Main System
- Video
- Memory
if there is a failure you might hear a beep or on the display.
- beep amount will be for different issues
## Common issues
Blank screen
- Bad RAM
- Bad CPU
- BIOS config issue
Bios time and setting
- CMOS battery needs replacing
- time was just not set properly?
Booting incorrect devices
- boot order is wrong
- media might not have OS
- media is not set for start up
# Windows Stop Error
gives information on the error that occurred. 
- you can see it in the windows event if you missed the error
- useful to bring up for manufacturer support
Bluescreen of deaths can happen because of
- bad hardware
- bad drivers
- bad applications
if this is a very recent occurrence, you might be able to do a system restore or run safe mode.
- try a hardware diagnostics to check for hardware errors
# Spinning ball of death
Also known as the spinning wait cursor.
- Sometimes it's temporary, sometimes not
	- Application bug
	- bad hardware
	- slow paging to disk
- to fix this:
	- restart computer
	- check the console logs
# Black Screen
is the monitor connected?
- check the display connections and input selection
- try a different monitor
No video after windows boot?
- try VGA mode (f8)
## Power?
- check that there is power with a multimeter.
- check if the system has power
- No post? bad motherboard?
- do fans have power?
- PSU output?
# Sluggish Performance
look at task manager.
- check CPU and I/O
- Can be windows update
- Disk space needs to be defragged
- Power saving mode
- Thermal throttling
- Anti-virus
# Overheating
Heat generation can be made by CPU, GPU and RAM mostly.
make sure the fans, heatsinks are clean
# Smoke
if you smell it or see it. something is cooked
# Intermittent shutdown
when the system shutdown all of a sudden
could be heat. check event viewer. maybe even failed hardware.
# Application crashes
May provide an error or not.
- you can check event log when this happens.
- Windows reliability monitor
	- Shows what type of issues you get application, system, etc.
# Grinding noise
can be the HDD or the fans. you don't want to hear that at all.
# Lockups
- check activity monitor if possible
- reboot if completely frozen.
- Low resources
- Drivers? patches?
- check hardware
# Continuous Reboot
Document the boot process
- where does it stop or boot loop?
- Bad Drivers?
	- try f8 - boot from last known working config
	- you can remove automatic restart in f8 to check blue screens
