# No video
- Check cables
	- Connected?
	- Broken?
- No video after windows bootup
	- Try VGA mode (f8)
# Image Quality
make sure the cables is not damaged.
- vga pins too
Image Distortion
- check OS refresh rate/resolution
Disable hardware acceleration
- to troubleshoot drivers
# Native Resolution
LCD display is fixed, make sure that the video settings match the native resolution.
- if it's not at the right resolution the fonts can look mismatched
- try using a factor that is compatible with the resolution (scaling within ratio)
# Burn in
all monitors can get burn in
some displays have pixel-shift to minimize that
LCDs have "image sticking"
- you can leave a white display to get some image fixed on the monitor
# Dead Pixels
Always black
- manufacturing defect
This probably isn't a problem on your side
replace the monitor
# Flashing Screen
- Can be a loose cable or replace the cable
- problem could be the monitor
- Check monitor settings on OS
# Incorrect color display
Check monitor settings for hues
- factory reset?
- Drivers?
- OS Color tint?
- Night settings?
# Audio Issues
Monitors sometimes have issues
- check audio controls on monitor
- check what type of connection is being used
	- HDMI, DisplayPort, thunderbolt
	- Audio Jack
# Dim Image
Monitor settings
- brigtness
- contrast
Check OS
- auto-dim
- battery dim
- driver settings
backlight failure
- if you need a flashlight and can't change settings
# LCD Projector
Check the lamps
- Metal Halide
- very bright and hot
- expensive to replace
- leave the fan on after use
Intermittent projector shutdown
- no light output
- fans may continue to run
Cooling issue
- Fans constantly cool bulb
- shutdown temps are high
- Check the airflow and filters
