# No Network Connectivity
1. Check if there is a link light on the ethernet interface
2. ping loopback (try 127.0.0.1)
	- This proves that we can communicate to our own device
3. ping our devices IP address
	 - Checks if we can connect locally by our assigned IP address from the DHCP
4. Ping the gateway
	- Such as the router
5. Ping to the outside such as `1.1.1.1` or `8.8.8.8`
# Wireless
1. Look into interference
	- Someone might be using the same frequency as us or a device such as a cordless phone might be interfering.
2. Check the Signal Strength
	- Transmitting signal
	- transmitting antenna
	- receiving antenna
3. Check the Channels
	- Usually automatic, although check if it's manually configured
4. Bounce and Latency
	- Multi-path interference; flat surfaces
5. Incorrect access point placement
	- locate close to the users
# Wireless interference
predictable
- Fluorescent lights
- microwaves
- telephones
- high power sources
unpredictable
- multi-tenant building
Measurements
- SNR - Signal to noise ratio
- Performance monitor
# SNR
## Signal
what you want it's frequency for your connection
## Noise
interference from other networks or devices
## Ratio
you want a larger Signal to Noise Ratio. even 1:1 is bad
# Limited or no connectivity
1. Check what windows says. the system tray might say that there is limited or no connectivity
2. Check the local IP address
	- APIPA addresses will only have local connectivity, therefore Windows will say there is no connectivity outside of the local network (similar to how cameras with WIFI, when connected to a phone. the phone will say no internet)
3. If DHCP address is obtained. preform a ping test
	- Local gateway, remote IP address
# Jitter
Jitter is the time between (information) frames. the more jitter the more choppiness.
Real time media is sensitive to delay due to #UDP
- streaming services
- VOIP
- Anything LIVE
If you miss a packet there is no retransmission #UDP
You need high speed and low latency for these real time applications.
- try speed tests
- check your equipment, some might not be able to keep up with the required speeds.
# Latency
is the delay in response, this is expected and normal as the laws of physics apply after all. 
- It's important to measure the response times at every step and may require multiple tools to properly measure (wireshark and more...). 
- One of the best way to measure is packet captures to get detailed analysis from input and output from the network.
# Port Flapping
When the light is solid on a ethernet connection then shuts off, and shuts on slowly. this indicates that there might be some issue with the connection.
1. Check the cable
2. Check if it's the device connected or the switch?
	1. If moving the cable to a different connection on the switch. it might be a switch issue. Else try a different device on that port or cable connection if possible.
3. Replace any hardware, devices, or cables if necessary 